The advanced marauder has a short range electrocution attack. Just aim and zap.
You get rewards for killing members of the enemy team, which can be spent on upgrades.
Watch your fire. You lose credits, score, and your allies' respect if you kill members of your own team.
Drills and leeches are more effective if you move them further apart. Try not to build your forward bases too close to each other.
Many smaller aliens can crawl on the walls and ceiling. Advanced grangers can also build there. Remember to look up!
Your team's momentum is what unlocks upgrades. Sit around in base too much, and you lose momentum, and could get locked out of your battlesuits.
Unvanquished is a relatively complex game, and can be confusing at first. Try not to be too mean to the new players.
Humans can buy and sell their upgrades at an armory on a whim, but cannot change equipment away from base.
Aliens can evolve anywhere it's safe, but once evolved, only death will bring them back to a smaller class.
Try not to use the same strategy every time. A smart enemy will memorize it and will be ready to ambush you.
The rocket pod will not fire if it thinks its rocket will damage humans or the base. Don't put a turret in front of it, or it will never fire.
Rocket pods fire exactly what you would think they fire, and are most effective when pointed down a long hallway.
A trapper and an acid tube right above the door is an easy and effective alien defense. Watch out for grenades, however...
"Feeding" refers to dying to the enemy over and over again without getting kills of your own. This gives the other team more momentum.
Unvanquished is just a game, no matter how deeply you invest yourself in it.
Your team can only have one central building (overmind or reactor). If it's destroyed, most of your buildings are disabled until you rebuild it.
Beacons provide you and your team with valuable information. One of them is even a countdown timer, to help coordinate attacks.
Nearly everything you do in the game can also be bound to any key on your keyboard. The same key can even do multiple actions, like buying favorite items.
If you're low on health, a beacon will appear for you showing nearby places to heal. With any luck, there might even be base defenses.
A good forward base usually includes a build point generator (drill or leech), a healing building (booster or medistation), and a couple of spawn buildings.
If you like the spot so much, maybe you should put a base on it! Forward bases help keep pressure on the other team.
